Update LLM Evaluate Metric documentation (#13749)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/llms/llm-evaluate/index.rst

There are two types of LLM evaluation metrics in MLflow:

> 1. **Heuristic-based metrics**: These metrics calculate a score for each data record (row in terms of Pandas/Spark dataframe), based on certain functions, like Rouge (:py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.rougeL`) or Flesch Kincaid (:py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.flesch_kincaid_grade_level`) or Bilingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) (:py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.bleu`). These metrics are similar to traditional metrics. For the list of built-in heuristic metrics and how to define a custom metric with your own function definition, see the `Heuristic-based Metrics <#heuristic-based-metrics>`_ section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Heuristic-based metrics**: These metrics calculate a score for each data record (row in terms of Pandas/Spark dataframe), based on certain functions such as: Rouge (:py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.rougeL`), Flesch Kincaid (:py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.flesch_kincaid_grade_level`) and Bilingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) (:py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.bleu`). These metrics are similar to traditional continuous value metrics. For the list of built-in heuristic metrics and how to define a custom metric with your own function definition, see the `Heuristic-based Metrics <#heuristic-based-metrics>`_ section.
```

The full reference for supported evaluation metrics can be found `here <../../python_api/mlflow.html#mlflow.evaluate>`_.

Create Custom heuristic-based LLM Evaluation Metrics
****************************************************

This is very similar to creating custom traditional metrics, with the exception of returning a :py:func:`mlflow.metrics.MetricValue` instance.
Basically you need to:

> 1. Implement a ``eval_fn`` to define your scoring logic, it must take in 2 args ``predictions`` and ``targets``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Implement an ``eval_fn`` to define your scoring logic. This function must take in 2 args: ``predictions`` and ``targets``.
```

   ``eval_fn`` must return a :py:func:`mlflow.metrics.MetricValue` instance.

> 2. Pass ``eval_fn`` and other arguments to ``mlflow.metrics.make_metric`` API to create the metric. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Pass ``eval_fn`` and other arguments to the ``mlflow.metrics.make_metric`` API to create the metric. 
```

The following code creates a dummy per-row metric called ``"over_10_chars"``: if the model output is greater than 10, 

> the score is "yes" otherwise "no".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the score is "yes", otherwise it is "no".
```

.. code-block:: python

    def eval_fn(predictions, targets):
        scores = []
        for i in range(len(predictions)):
            if len(predictions[i]) > 10:
                scores.append("yes")
            else:

>                 scores.append("no")

Reviewer: Would it be more clear to do this as a comprehension? 

```python
scores = ["yes" if len(pred) > 10 else "no" for pred in predictions]
```

Author: Yea I like that version more (just moved the section so not sure the original intention tho haha)

        return MetricValue(
            scores=scores,
            aggregate_results=standard_aggregations(scores),
        )

    # Create an EvaluationMetric object.
    passing_code_metric = make_metric(
        eval_fn=eval_fn, greater_is_better=False, name="over_10_chars"
    )

To create a custom metric that is dependent on other metrics, include those other metrics' names as an argument after ``predictions`` and ``targets``. This can be the name of a builtin metric or another custom metric.
Ensure that you do not accidentally have any circular dependencies in your metrics, or the evaluation will fail.

> The following code creates a dummy per-row metric called ``"toxic_or_over_10_chars"``: if the model output is greater than 10 or the toxicity score is greater than 0.5, the score is "yes" otherwise "no".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code creates a dummy per-row metric called ``"toxic_or_over_10_chars"``; if the model output is greater than 10 or the toxicity score is greater than 0.5, the score is "yes", otherwise it is "no".
```

.. code-block:: python

    def eval_fn(predictions, targets, toxicity, over_10_chars):
        scores = []

>         for i in range(len(predictions)):

Reviewer: same here - perhaps a comprehension might be a little easier?

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

LLM-as-a-Judge is a new type of metric that uses LLMs to score the quality of model outputs, providing a more human-like evaluation for complex language tasks while being more scalable and cost-effective than human evaluation.

MLflow supports several builtin LLM-as-a-judge metrics, as well as allowing you to create your own LLM-as-a-judge metrics with custom configurations and prompts.

Built-in LLM-as-a-Judge metrics
*******************************

To use built-in LLM-as-a-Judge metrics in MLflow, pass the list of metrics definitions to the ``extra_metrics`` argument in the :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` function.

The following example uses the built-in answer correctness metric for evaluation, in addition to the latency metric (heuristic):

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.metrics import latency
    from mlflow.metrics.genai import answer_correctness

    results = mlflow.evaluate(
        eval_data,
        targets="ground_truth",
        extra_metrics=[
            answer_correctness(),
            latency(),
        ],
    )

Here is the list of built-in LLM-as-a-Judge metrics. Click on the link to see the full documentation for each metric:

> * :py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_similarity`: Evaluate how similar the model generated output is compared to the information in the ground_truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_similarity`: Evaluate how similar a model's generated output is compared to ground_truth data.
```

> * :py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_correctness`: Evaluate how factually correct the model generated output is based on the information in the ground_truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_correctness`: Evaluate how factually correct the model's generated output is based on the information within the ground_truth data.
```

* :py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_relevance`: Evaluate how relevant the model generated output is to the input (context is ignored).
* :py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.genai.relevance`: Evaluate how relevant the model generated output is with respect to both the input and the context.
* :py:func:`~mlflow.metrics.genai.faithfulness`: Evaluate how faithful the model generated output is based on the context provided.

Selecting the Judge Model
*************************

> By default, MLflow use OpenAI GPT-4 model as the judge model that scores metrics. You can change the judge model by passing an override to the ``model`` argument within the metric definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, MLflow will use OpenAI's GPT-4 model as the judge model that scores metrics. You can change the judge model by passing an override to the ``model`` argument within the metric definition.
```

1. SaaS LLM Providers
#####################

> To use SaaS LLM providers, such as OpenAI, Anthropic, set the ``model`` parameter in the metrics definition, in the format of ``<provider>:/<model-name>``. For example, to use Anthropic Claude 3.5 model as the judge model, set ``anthropic`` as the provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use SaaS LLM providers, such as OpenAI or Anthropic, set the ``model`` parameter in the metrics definition in the format of ``<provider>:/<model-name>``. For example, to use Anthropic Claude 3.5 model as the judge model, set ``anthropic`` as the provider.
```

.. code-block:: python

    my_answer_similarity = mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_similarity(
        model="anthropic:/claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022",
        # Override default judge parameters to meet Claude endpoint requirements.
        parameters={"temperature": 0, "max_tokens": 256},
    )

> Currently, MLflow supports ``["openai", "anthropic", "bedrock", "mistral", "togetherai"]`` as an LLM provider for the judge model. Azure OpenAI endpoints can be accessed via the ``openai:/<model-name>`` URI, by setting the environment variables, such as ``OPENAI_API_BASE``, ``OPENAI_API_TYPE``, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, MLflow supports ``["openai", "anthropic", "bedrock", "mistral", "togetherai"]`` as viable LLM providers for any judge model. Azure OpenAI endpoints can be accessed via the ``openai:/<model-name>`` URI, by setting the environment variables, such as ``OPENAI_API_BASE``, ``OPENAI_API_TYPE``, etc.
```

    the environment variable, e.g., ``ANTHROPIC_API_KEY``. Your use of a third party LLM service (e.g., OpenAI) for evaluation may be subject to and governed by the LLM service's terms of use.

2. Self-hosted Proxy Endpoints
##############################

If you are accessing SaaS LLM providers via a proxy endpoint (e.g., for security compliance), you can set the ``proxy_url`` parameter in the metrics definition. Additionally, use the ``extra_headers`` parameters  to pass extra headers for the endpoint for authentication.

.. code-block:: python

    answer_similarity = mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_similarity(
        model="openai:/gpt-4o",
        proxy_url="https://my-proxy-endpoint/chat",
        extra_headers={"Group-ID": "my-group-id"},
    )

3. MLflow AI Gateway Endpoints
##############################

`MLflow AI Gateway <../deployments/index.html>`_ is a self-hosted solution that allows you to query various LLM providers in a unified interface. To use an endpoint hosted by MLflow AI Gateway:

1. Start the MLflow AI Gateway server with your LLM setting by following `these steps <../deployments/index.html#quickstart>`_.

> 2. Set MLflow deployment client to target the server address by using :py:func:`~mlflow.deployments.set_deployments_target()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set the MLflow deployment client to target the server address by using :py:func:`~mlflow.deployments.set_deployments_target()`.
```

3. Set ``endpoints:/<endpoint-name>`` to the ``model`` parameter in the metrics definition.

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.deployments import set_deployments_target

    # When the MLflow AI Gateway server is running at http://localhost:5000
    set_deployments_target("http://localhost:5000")
    my_answer_similarity = mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_similarity(
        model="endpoints:/my-endpoint"
    )

4. Databricks Model Serving
###########################

> If you have a model hosted on Databricks, you can use it as a judge model by setting ``endpoints:/<endpoint-name>`` to the ``model`` parameter in the metrics definition. The following code uses a Llama 3.1 405B model available via `Foundation Model API <https://docs.databricks.com/en/machine-learning/model-serving/index.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a model hosted on Databricks, you can use it as a judge model by setting ``endpoints:/<endpoint-name>`` to the ``model`` parameter in the metrics definition. The following code uses a Llama 3.1 405B model available via the `Foundation Model API <https://docs.databricks.com/en/machine-learning/model-serving/index.html>`_.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.deployments import set_deployments_target

    set_deployments_target("databricks")
    llama3_answer_similarity = mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_similarity(
        model="endpoints:/databricks-llama-3-1-405b-instruct"
    )

Overriding Default Judge Parameters
***********************************

By default, MLflow queries the judge LLM model with the following parameters:

.. code-block:: yaml

    temperature: 0.0
    max_tokens: 200
    top_p: 1.0

> However, this might not be suitable for all LLM providers. For example, accessing Anthropic's Claude models on Amazon Bedrock requires ``anthropic_version`` parameter to be specified in the request payload. You can override these default parameters by passing the ``parameters`` argument to the metrics definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this might not be suitable for all LLM providers. For example, accessing Anthropic's Claude models on Amazon Bedrock requires an ``anthropic_version`` parameter to be specified in the request payload. You can override these default parameters by passing the ``parameters`` argument to the metrics definition.
```

.. code-block:: python

    my_answer_similarity = mlflow.metrics.genai.answer_similarity(
        model="bedrock:/anthropic.claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022-v2:0",
        parameters={
            "temperature": 0,
            "max_tokens": 256,
            "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31",
        },
    )

> Note that the parameters dictionary you pass in the ``parameters`` argument will replace the default parameters, instead of being merged with them. For example, ``top_p`` will **not** be sent to the model in the above code example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the parameters dictionary you pass in the ``parameters`` argument will **replace the default parameters** instead of being merged with them. For example, ``top_p`` will **not** be sent to the model in the above code example.
```

Creating Custom LLM-as-a-Judge Metrics
**************************************

You can also create your own LLM-as-a-Judge evaluation metrics with :py:func:`mlflow.metrics.genai.make_genai_metric` API, which needs the following information:

* ``name``: the name of your custom metric.
* ``definition``: describe what's the metric doing. 
* ``grading_prompt``: describe the scoring criteria. 

> * ``examples`` (Optional): a few input/output examples with score, they are used as a reference for LLM judge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``examples`` (Optional): a few input/output examples with scores provided; used as a reference for the LLM judge.
```

        greater_is_better=True,
    )

Prepare Your Target Models
--------------------------

> In order to evaluate your model with ``mlflow.evaluate()``, your model has to be one of the following type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to evaluate your model with ``mlflow.evaluate()``, your model has to be one of the following types:
```
